(03:48:58 PM) eyedeekay: It would seem not, I'll have a look at gitlab's bugtracker and see if I can find an explanation
(04:00:03 PM) eyedeekay: Hi everyone, welcome to the development meeting
(04:00:03 PM) eyedeekay: 1. Hi 
(04:00:03 PM) eyedeekay: 2. Release Date
(04:00:03 PM) eyedeekay: 3. Development Status (1.8.0 / 0.9.54)
(04:00:05 PM) eyedeekay: hi
(04:00:13 PM) zlatinb: hi
(04:00:17 PM) zzz: hello
(04:00:45 PM) eyedeekay: 2. Release date
(04:01:16 PM) eyedeekay: We need to decide on one, tentatively it's been the 23rd for a while, that works for me if it works for everybody else?
(04:01:43 PM) zzz: that would be 13 weeks, fine with me
(04:02:01 PM) zzz: need approval from eche|off eche|on if he's here
(04:03:04 PM) eyedeekay: looks like not but I can email him after the meeting
(04:04:00 PM) eyedeekay: looking like the 23rd pending email to ech
(04:04:09 PM) eyedeekay: Anything else for 2?
(04:04:58 PM) eyedeekay: 3. Development Status (1.8.0 / 0.9.54)
(04:07:41 PM) eyedeekay: We're definitely less than a month from releasing 1.8.0/0.9.54 in any case, with lots of it being preparation/implementation for SSU2 by zzz
(04:08:42 PM) eyedeekay: Big changes should be done soon, and tag freeze is on the 11th so translations must be in by then
(04:09:28 PM) eyedeekay: /translations/strings
(04:09:58 PM) eyedeekay: zzz, zlatinb anything to add on this topic?
(04:10:44 PM) zzz: not much, I'm pretty much done, will be chasing a few minor things on my list in the next couple weeks
(04:11:02 PM) zlatinb: nothing from me
(04:11:03 PM) zzz: any new ssu2 stuff I'll probably either hold off or stick in a branch
(04:11:11 PM) zzz: eot
(04:12:05 PM) eyedeekay: thanks guys
(04:12:49 PM) eyedeekay: Anything else for the meeting? Last-minute topics? timeout 1m
(04:14:13 PM) eyedeekay: All right, quick meeting today
(04:14:33 PM) eyedeekay: Thanks everyone for coming, I'll email echelon then post the logs