(04:00:41 PM) eyedeekay: Hi everybody and welcome to the June 7 meeting
(04:00:41 PM) eyedeekay: 1. Hi 
(04:00:41 PM) eyedeekay: 2. 1.8.0 release status 
(04:00:41 PM) eyedeekay: 3. 1.9.0 development status
(04:00:41 PM) eyedeekay: 4. MoneroKon 2022
(04:01:23 PM) zzz: hi
(04:01:27 PM) zlatinb: hi
(04:01:52 PM) eyedeekay: Hi guys, anybody else here or any topics to add?
(04:03:26 PM) eyedeekay: I'll get us started on 1.8.0 release status then
(04:04:29 PM) eyedeekay: Maven and I2P Easy-Install bundle for Windows were released shortly after the main 1.8.0 release occurred without incident, the I2P Easy-Install bundle got it's first successful automatic update as well
(04:05:12 PM) eyedeekay: The Android release was delayed by about 5 days because I had to change it to avoid asking for a new gated permission from google to release on gplay
(04:05:37 PM) eyedeekay: zzz do you want to apprise us of the main release and debian and then zlatinb, OSX easy install bundle?
(04:06:37 PM) zzz: two weeks since the release, all looks good, haven't heard any complaints
(04:07:01 PM) zzz: about 25% of the network has updated. BiglyBT release should be out shortly, that will give us a big jump
(04:07:01 PM) zzz: that's all I have unless anybody has questions
(04:07:03 PM) mode (-m ) by zzz
(04:07:07 PM) zlatinb: same here, only difference from earlier release is that the Mac bundle includes GPLv2+Classpath license
(04:07:29 PM) eyedeekay: Thanks guys, anything else on this topic?
(04:08:26 PM) eyedeekay: 3. 1.9.0 development status
(04:11:01 PM) eyedeekay: 2 weeks from release we're also 2 weeks into 1.9.0, zzz has been hard at work on ssu2 with orignal, if he wants to give us an update on that
(04:11:22 PM) zzz: thanks
(04:11:31 PM) zzz: we're getting wider testing of SSU2
(04:11:50 PM) zzz: I encourage people who are willing and able, to enable it, and keep up to date with development builds
(04:11:58 PM) anonymousmaybe is now known as Irc2PGuest25323
(04:12:00 PM) zzz: we're still finding bugs in the basic protocol
(04:12:20 PM) zzz: and we're continuing implementation of relay and peer test, which are like sub-protocols
(04:12:41 PM) zzz: fixing other non-ssu2 bugs along the way
(04:12:54 PM) zzz: eyedeekay, you and I need to update the roadmap both for the past release and the next one
(04:13:13 PM) zzz: EOT unless there's any questions
(04:13:23 PM) eyedeekay: Yes indeed, I've got some stuff to move to 1.9.0
(04:13:50 PM) eyedeekay: for me my main goal in Java is to finish UDP tunnels in HSM, that's one of the things that moves to 1.9.0
(04:14:10 PM) eyedeekay: otherwise my immediate goal is to work on NTCP2 in go-i2p, which will probably be hard work but I'm excited to get started
(04:14:18 PM) eyedeekay: EOT for me as well
(04:14:48 PM) zzz: ok, as usual, target big changes to go in early in the cycle please
(04:15:06 PM) eyedeekay: Will do
(04:15:13 PM) eyedeekay: Anything else for 3?
(04:15:35 PM) zzz: nope, let's plan for a release in late August
(04:15:44 PM) eyedeekay: 4. MoneroKon 2022
(04:16:36 PM) eyedeekay: This one is just an announcement, there is going to be quite a bit of I2P related stuff happening at Monero Konferenco 2022 in less than 2 weeks, the 18th and 19th
(04:17:10 PM) zzz: Lisbon, correct?
(04:17:22 PM) eyedeekay: Yes Lisbon
(04:17:54 PM) eyedeekay: But people who aren't in Lisbon are able to stream it from the web site for the conference, https://monerokon.com
(04:17:58 PM) zzz: I'd like to plug the two students sponsored by diva.exchange that will be giving a presentation on their research there
(04:18:17 PM) zzz: you have a workshop also? what about?
(04:18:35 PM) eyedeekay: I'm going to be there to run a workshop on adapting applications to the I2P network
(04:19:29 PM) eyedeekay: I'm going to present on the decisions people need to make when selecting an API, how to find a router, how to build an I2P plugin
(04:19:40 PM) zzz: fantastic. there's going to be a lot of I2P brainpower there to help people and answer questions, I hope you get a good turnout
(04:19:51 PM) anonymousmaybe is now known as Irc2PGuest29437
(04:20:28 PM) eyedeekay: I hope so too, it's my favorite topic :)
(04:21:45 PM) eyedeekay: zlatinb is going to be there as well, so if you can please come see us
(04:22:28 PM) eyedeekay: That's all I've got for 4, anything else for the meeting?
(04:23:55 PM) eyedeekay: All right thanks everybody for coming, same time next month
(04:24:59 PM) obscuratus: eyedeekay: Are they going to stream your workshop?
(04:25:53 PM) eyedeekay: I'm not sure, I'll make all the materials open/permissively licensed regardless
(04:26:24 PM) obscuratus: Neat topic.  If they stream it, or if you can post a video later, I'll watch it.
(04:26:32 PM) eyedeekay: I believe the box I marked on the form was that I did consent to be streamed
(04:27:34 PM) zzz: eyedeekay, the times on your reddit post are lisbon local?
(04:27:58 PM) eyedeekay: Yes the schedule on the monerokon website are UTC+1 which is Lisbon Local
(04:28:39 PM) eyedeekay: *times on the monerokon website
(04:29:07 PM) zzz: ok so 5 hours ahead of eastern, so the students are on at 5:30 AM 